---
description: Key terms & their descriptions
---

# Glossary\*

<table><thead><tr><th width="163">Term</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Beneficiary Service Platform (BSP)</strong></td><td>Digital platforms dedicated for assisting beneficiaries to track and file claims.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Coverage Eligibility</strong> </td><td>Process of checking if the beneficiary's policy is in force and cover the proposed goods, products and services. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>Claims</strong></td><td>Process of seeking payer's authorisation on the proposed set of goods, products and services and getting funds.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>FHIR Profile</strong></td><td>A JSON data structure that defines a domain model eligible to be carried as part of JWE payload in the HCX protocol APIs.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>HCX Switch</strong></td><td>Instance of the HCX gateway, implemented as per the HCX protocol, that facilitates the information exchange between its participants.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>HCX Network</strong></td><td>Instance(s) of HCX and their participating systems governed by a common network policy.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>In-patient department (IPD)</strong></td><td>Inpatient care, often referred to as the In-patient department (IPD), is a dedicated section within a healthcare facility specifically designed to deliver comprehensive medical care and treatment to patients or beneficiaries who require admission or an extended stay within the hospital.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Network participants</strong></td><td>Any platform that has implemented the HCX protocol and becomes the part of a network as above.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Notification</strong></td><td>A logical unit of information sent to relevant network participants. Notifications can be triggered by an event, activity or time trigger on the network.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Notify</strong></td><td>Act of sending a notification.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Out patient department (OPD)</strong></td><td>The Outpatient Department (OPD) is a distinct component of a healthcare facility, such as a hospital or clinic, dedicated to delivering medical services to patients who do not necessitate overnight hospitalisation.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Payer/Payor</strong> </td><td>Insurance provider, employer, organisation or an individual responsible for making payments, typically for services or goods delivered to the beneficiaries.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Pre -authorization/pre-auth</strong></td><td>Process of seeking payer's authorisation on the proposed set of goods, products and services and reservation of needed funds.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Provider</strong></td><td>Service provider is a facility, professional, or entity that offers required services and bills insurers or the beneficiaries for the services provided.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Registry</strong></td><td>A tamper proof, audited collection of entries with their provenance.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Reimbursement</strong></td><td>Service delivery context in which beneficiary initially pays for the service expenses to the service provider, and then seeking reimbursement from their respective payer.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Schema</strong></td><td>A JSON data structure that defines an entity as per OpenAPI 3.0 schema specifications.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Template</strong></td><td>Message structure with placeholder for context dependent data variable that helps in standardising the message parsing on the network.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Technical Service Provider (TSP)</strong> </td><td>Organisation that offers specialised technical support, services, or solutions to assist HCX network participants like providers, payers, etc.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Third party administrator (TPA)</strong></td><td>Third-Party Administrator (TPA) in healthcare manages administrative tasks, such as claims processing and provider network management, on behalf of health insurance companies or self-funded employers.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Following sections provides details of the origins & need of the Health Data Exchange (HCX) effort.
